So now let's talk about intrinsic functions.
So we've seen them before,
but I wanna give you a list
and the ones that are in blue are the one you must know.
So we have the Ref, the Get attribute function,
the FindInMap, ImportValue, Join, Sub
ForEach, ToJsonString.
The Conditions Function such as if, not, equals, et cetera.
The Base64, Cidr,
GetAZs, Select, Split, Transform, Length.
So all these are of course documented
on the CloudFormation websites
and so if one of them is not discussed in these slides
but you want to have a look at it,
please have a look online.
I'm going to discuss the most important ones,
especially from an exam perspective.
So the first one is the Ref function.
And so the Ref functions we can see
can be leveraged to get a reference.
It could be a reference to a parameter,
to return the value of this parameter,
or to resources to return the physical ID
of the underlying resource that has been created.
For example, an EC2 instance.
The shorthand is always with an exclamation point,
so !Ref.
And here is an example of how to use a Ref.
So here, we are creating a subnet
and we need to define the VPC to which the subnet belongs.
So we use the Ref to MyVPC
and MyVPC is either another resource
or it could be a parameter.
Then we have the GetAtt function.
So this is to get an attribute
and attributes are attached to any resource you create.
Now to know what attributes a resource has,
the best place to look at is the documentation.
So let's do it right now.
So here I am on the EC2 Instance
documentation page for CloudFormation.
And you have a look at return values.
So for return values, we have Ref.
So whenever we use a Ref to a resource of type EC2 instance,
what we're going to get is the instance ID,
for example this one.
So anytime we use Ref,
we're going to get the reference ID out of it.
But if we use GetAtt to get an attribute,
we have the option to get more information
out of this EC2 instance.
So here we have the AvailabilityZone.
So for example, we can know in which AZ
an instance was launched, for example, us-east-1b.
You get the Id again,
you could get the PrivateDNSName, the PrivateIp,
the PublicDNSName, and the PublicIp.
So while the Ref gives you usually a reference to the ID
of the resource you have created,
the GetAtt allows you to get more out of the resource
and you can only get what CloudFormation supports
in terms of attributes that are defined in here
in the documentation.
So here, if you want to get the AvailabilityZone
out of an EC2 instance,
first we define an EC2 instance
in our template and then we define for example,
an EBSVolume and because we want this volume
to be attached to our EC2 instance in the proper AZ,
we need to know the AZ of our EC2 instance.
And one way to do it is in the properties
under AvailabilityZone to use
the GetAtt intrinsic function
to reference the EC2Instance.AvailabilityZone.
The first part, EC2Instance is the name of the resource
as we defined it on the left hand side
and .AvailabilityZone is the name of the attribute
that is exposed by this resource.
So this is how we get the AZ out of it
and we input it into our EBSVolume.
We've seen FindInMap.
So again it's to get a value
directly from a specific key in a specific map.
So this was used when we had mappings, of course,
we have also seen the ImportValue intrinsic function.
This was used to import values
that were exported in other stacks.
So here's an example in which we create an EC2 instance
and we import the value
of a security group ID named SSHSecurityGroup.
And that security group was defined in another stack
and of course exported.
We have the Base64 function
to convert a string into a Base64 representation.
And the reason why we do so usually
is to pass data to the user data of an EC2 instance.
So we use the Base64 function
before we define the string of the user data
and automatically gets converted
and passed to your EC2 instance.
So that's probably one of the only usage of it.
We've seen the condition function,
so this is when we had a condition
to conditionally create resources and so on.
And so these intrinsic function can be used.
We have the End, the Equals, the If, the Not,
and the Or functions.
Okay, so that's it for intrinsic function.
I hope you liked it and I will see you in the next lecture.